[SPEAKER_01]: So, Billingsley Laughlin, let's get to that point, I guess.
[SPEAKER_01]: Oh, first, any outstanding exceptional design projects that you remember before?
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't remember dates exactly, but I think that the Ann novel that you mentioned, Mary Ann, Tom Lee.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay, I got those covered.
[SPEAKER_01]: O'Neill Ford, American Crow, and the Common Rated.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah, yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: Good, I've got all those things in the hobbits.
[SPEAKER_01]: What I'm trying to do is pick titles that look kind of exciting.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay, Jim leaves in 1992 on a 60% basis.
[SPEAKER_01]: At that point, did you make the transfer of 94?
[SPEAKER_00]: No, 94.
[SPEAKER_01]: At that time, I was doing the radio station.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay, and you were still working again.
[SPEAKER_01]: Is there any change or a new kind of level of activity going on in that area that you were aware of?
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I guess that was when Maureen first started doing the radio station.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was about that time.
[SPEAKER_01]: But we hadn't done any of those.
[SPEAKER_01]: And was Maureen still in an editorial thing or had she moved over to marketing?
[SPEAKER_01]: No, she was in marketing.
[SPEAKER_01]: She and I would kind of try to figure out what we were going to do with coverings and get our work for them and stuff.
[SPEAKER_01]: And as far as the other books are concerned, Jim was still, I mean, he would do probably 60%.
[SPEAKER_01]: or 50%, I don't remember exact percentages, but he would be doing the design, and then I had freelance designers do the parts that he couldn't do, yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so I was in here by myself for two years, basically.
[SPEAKER_01]: I did hire some part-time help to help with some beginning computerization.
[SPEAKER_01]: I had Jane Cheslow, and I can't remember the other guy's name, that helped out with some stuff there.
[SPEAKER_01]: But until...
[SPEAKER_01]: pretty much until Angela came on in June of 94, I was in here by myself.
[SPEAKER_01]: With Mary Ann's help, too, from marketing.
[SPEAKER_01]: So Jim lives in 64, he retires fully in 94, now he's coming.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, it started in September.
[SPEAKER_01]: And at that point, Stetter's coming, he's better left in 93.
[SPEAKER_01]: Mary Miller.
[SPEAKER_01]: Mary Miller comes in.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now,
[SPEAKER_01]: In that situation, which was a difficult situation, I have to characterize it, what's happening in the mural, for me, in the press, and so forth.
[SPEAKER_01]: Is there trauma, shock, whatever, recovery, or if it's pretty much as usual?
[SPEAKER_01]: We were trying to maintain.
[SPEAKER_01]: Trying to keep going.
[SPEAKER_01]: We'd kind of been doing it.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you had been doing that either.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's why I did it.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I didn't.
[SPEAKER_01]: We didn't change that way.
[SPEAKER_01]: The work was important.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: We had a couple of really big, kind of exciting projects then.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was a quest.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, when Mary Miller comes in, what is her thrust?
[SPEAKER_01]: Settling down to
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, I think she did that later.
[SPEAKER_01]: She was trying to learn.
[SPEAKER_01]: She didn't know anything about publishing it after.
[SPEAKER_01]: So, it didn't seem like she really, you know, decided to have the books or anything in the beginning.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, lots of meetings.
[SPEAKER_01]: She was very into getting everybody together and talking about it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, that's part of the management style.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: Were there any notable changes and personnel changes and so forth?
[SPEAKER_01]: She made the changes, for example.
[SPEAKER_01]: Was that her initiative?
[SPEAKER_01]: Was that good?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, I always wanted, I'd always been interested in doing the work.
[SPEAKER_01]: I mean, I guess when I was in marketing, we always had to do these packets of book jackets from the ABA, and I always kind of did those.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I'd work with Jim and get the information on what these books were going to look like, and then I'd kind of put them together.
[SPEAKER_01]: I would go with family or do some of the presentations where you take the dacets and you present them to the salesmen and you present them to a newspaper to do reviews.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I kind of looked at it from a different, I mean I was interested in how they looked.
[SPEAKER_01]: Okay, let me ask you that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Did that marketing experience help you in your design?
[SPEAKER_01]: It's airing email.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, I think it did.
[SPEAKER_00]: I don't think it might.
[SPEAKER_00]: I think it really did.
[SPEAKER_01]: It kind of tells you what the consumer is.
[SPEAKER_01]: Hearing what those salesmen had to say, they were very blunt about, you know, well this is going to work or this isn't going to work or why did you do it like this?
[SPEAKER_01]: And you only have a few seconds when you're talking to, like when Gayla goes to Barnes & Noble and tries to present all of our books to these buyers, she only has a couple of seconds to get their attention.
[SPEAKER_01]: And so a lot of times,
[SPEAKER_01]: You know, there's a book jacket.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, it kind of piques their interest.
[SPEAKER_01]: Do you feel that way too?
[SPEAKER_01]: The jacket is kind of a cute sale sometimes?
[SPEAKER_01]: I do now.
[SPEAKER_01]: I didn't always know it was so important, but I think that more, I realize more now.
[SPEAKER_01]: Especially with the tradie books, you know, and we didn't do a lot of the tradie books before.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I think all university presses now are getting more and more into the... For survival.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: So I think it's become more and more important in the last 10 years.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: Who knows we're going to have books in 10 years from now.
[SPEAKER_01]: We may not have books in 10 years.
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't have a computer at home.
[SPEAKER_01]: I hope we do.
[SPEAKER_01]: May not have as many books.
[SPEAKER_01]: So have there been any noticeable changes since Colbert Hill?
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, he has a real different style.
[SPEAKER_01]: I think he brings a different publishing expertise into the picture.
[SPEAKER_01]: In my view, he's very conservative.
[SPEAKER_01]: What do you say, Marianne?
[SPEAKER_01]: We're more structured as far as having launch meetings now and meetings where we all share information and talk about projects early on.
[SPEAKER_01]: So everybody kind of feels like they know what's going on to them.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we're really looking at the financial side of it and trying to make the price work.
[SPEAKER_01]: And we do many scenarios sometimes for estimating prior to setting the price in the print run of the book and talk about whether they should all be cloth or cloth and paper.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I think that he has some real strong feelings about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I think they're based on his experience.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I think that's really helpful to us.
[SPEAKER_01]: He's got so much experience.
[SPEAKER_01]: Like I remember in a discussion about Carrier Lexington, like Noel wanted to print more copies, and Tom didn't want to print as many copies.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, Tom had all these years of experience that he knew, even in the commercial houses, that a certain number of copies was about all he could sell, and then if you do sell more, then you just don't have to leave for it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Unless you know for sure.
[SPEAKER_01]: I never understood or don't understand the marketing part, but I know that you have to be conservative.
[SPEAKER_01]: How about in terms of
[SPEAKER_01]: style of content and more trained folks.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: How are we doing about regional?
[SPEAKER_01]: I think we're, I think so, yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: I think so, yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: Do you see any new, uh, areas of, you know, opportunity or areas of emphasis that we've, we've always been building here.
[SPEAKER_01]: I've known since 1985 women.
[SPEAKER_01]: We really done pretty well.
[SPEAKER_01]: I didn't realize how long we've done.
[SPEAKER_01]: I think Tom is more, you know, he goes to the Frankfurt Book Fair, and I think he's made us more international than we ever were before.
Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the co-publications, does that kind of tie into the international stuff?
[SPEAKER_01]: Because we didn't do many that I ever remember before Tom came along.
[SPEAKER_01]: The co-pubs with British... Say that again.
[SPEAKER_01]: Co-publications.
[SPEAKER_01]: As for example.
[SPEAKER_01]: Making Faces.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's a British publication.
[SPEAKER_01]: We bought a certain number of copies of their publications and it has our imprint on them as well.
[SPEAKER_01]: So we have the right to sell them in the United States.
[SPEAKER_01]: We don't have rights anymore.
[SPEAKER_01]: Do you think there's an opportunity for the university to press it in the United States?
[SPEAKER_01]: They buy a certain number of copies of our books.
[SPEAKER_01]: How about with Mexico?
[SPEAKER_01]: The Borderlands, I think, series that Mary Lynn has been, seems like, really instrumental in.
[SPEAKER_01]: We haven't done a whole lot yet.
[SPEAKER_01]: A summary statement.
[SPEAKER_01]: Anything, if you were writing a book, what would you say about the Indian professor and the Indian experience?
[SPEAKER_01]: Not going to have to be better, but say something good.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, I feel like that was small enough press that we all got to get involved with.
[SPEAKER_01]: I don't shape them.
[SPEAKER_01]: I really like them.
I like them.
[SPEAKER_01]: Because without, without, you know, we don't have to have our names in each one of the books or anything because I think everybody,
[SPEAKER_01]: from the director to the person that ships them out in the warehouse.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, is involved in it somehow.
[SPEAKER_01]: Everybody sometimes touches a different aspect of it, don't you think?
[SPEAKER_01]: And some of the bigger presses, even like the UT, I don't think they have to do that.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, that's a good question.
[SPEAKER_01]: And what's going to happen in the future?
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, things are becoming more and more electronic.
Yeah, yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's perfect.
[SPEAKER_01]: Or they may even like it up there.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: We've looked into them since we don't, but we haven't gotten into them.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm not sure at some point.
[SPEAKER_01]: If those stick around, it's hard to say.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, that's true, too.
[SPEAKER_01]: I guess it all depends on the internet.
[SPEAKER_01]: I mean, I guess it is someone, you know.
[SPEAKER_01]: You know, we tried our hand at the cassette tapes, and I don't know how well that did or not, but, you know, we did a few, the birds, we did Bandevers, horses.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yeah, I did Bandevers in class.
[SPEAKER_01]: I did do that, but that didn't help in the market.
[SPEAKER_01]: I used to book.
[SPEAKER_01]: It was wonderful.
[SPEAKER_00]: I love hearing him.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, he's a therapist.
[SPEAKER_01]: We haven't done any of those in a while.
[SPEAKER_01]: No, we did that very well.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah, paid lectures.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I imagine we'll be able to do whatever's equivalent at some point.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: I have a contract for that, you know, history.
[SPEAKER_01]: And I really really need a reactive facility for the literature.
[SPEAKER_01]: The big part of that is production.
[SPEAKER_01]: Probably.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yeah.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that's .
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, that's all I need for the moment.
[SPEAKER_01]: What I would like to ask you, if you will, when the manuscript is ready, I'll send the polymer circulator to .
[SPEAKER_01]: Tell him to do that, would you?
[SPEAKER_01]: Your point, and make sure that it's right.
[SPEAKER_01]: It's kind of interesting to write for a bunch of professional publisher titles.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, you're a professional author, right?
[SPEAKER_01]: Published author.
[SPEAKER_01]: But I usually don't know what authors write for a press about English.
[SPEAKER_01]: well we're we're anxious i am at least to read about it i know maryland said that they were reading some of the preliminary chapters right now but i'm curious do you see it as a big i mean is it going to be a big book